# Using the solution

## Streaming inference results to BigQuery

The VIAI Edge solution deployed an example GCP backend for storing the ML inference results and run analytics on the results. You could, for example, compare ML model performance across versions and time.

The example backend consists of the following pre-configured services:

* Cloud Pub/Sub for receiving ML inference results. The payload is the JSON results from the VIAI model container, with additional metadata:
  * Camera device ID
  * Timestamp of the ML inference execution in RFC3339 format
  * File ID of the inference. This ID can be used to match the ML inference results row in BigQuery with the image filenames generated by the camera client - if the client was configured to write, or upload images as files
* Cloud Function, subscribed to the Pub/Sub messages and write them to BigQuery
* BigQuery dataset as destination table for the ML inference results

To use the inference results cloud backend, add the following flags to the camera integration app:

* `--pubsub results` activates streaming the ML results JSON to Pub/Sub
* `--project_id` the GCP project ID where the backend was deployed
* `--credentials` pointing to the service account JSON key which has been authorized to publish messages to Pub/Sub

_Note:_ You will need to manually generate a service account in the `project_id` with permissions to publish into Pub/Sub.
The exported JSON key should be accessible by the viai-camera-integration-0 container. You can store it in the host OS path
that is mapped to `/var/lib/viai/camera-config`, for example.

To run the camera client with the Pub/Sub streaming option, open a shell in the camera integration container:

(`NAMESPACE` is the namespace where your camera container is running, by default `viai-edge`)

```bash
kubectl exec -it viai-camera-integration-0 -n $NAMESPACE -- /bin/bash
```

And from the container, run (example for Genicam):

```bash
export ML_HOST=<your inference model name>
export PROJECT_ID=<your gcp project id>

python3 camera_client.py --protocol genicam --gentl /var/lib/viai/camera-config/FLIR_GenTL_Ubuntu_20_04_x86_64.cti \
    --cfg_write --cfg_write_file ./flir-ax5-recommended.cfg --device_id ax5  --mode continuous --ml --ml_host ${ML_HOST} \
    --ml_port ${ML_PORT} --pubsub results --project_id ${PROJECT_ID} --count 1
```

Where:

* `ML_HOST` is the service name you used when you [deployed the model](./modeltoedge.md) in the edge server.
* `ML_PORT` is the port of your service, `8602` by default.

Or (example for USB):

```bash
export ML_HOST=<your inference model name>
export PROJECT_ID=<your gcp project id>

python3 camera_client.py --protocol usb --address ${ADDRESS}  \
    --device_id ${DEVICE_ID}  --mode continuous --ml --ml_host ${ML_HOST} \
    --ml_port ${ML_PORT} --pubsub results --project_id ${PROJECT_ID} --count 1
```

Where:

* `ML_HOST` is the service name you used when you [deployed the model](./modeltoedge.md) in the edge server.
* `ML_PORT` is the port of your service, `8602` by default.
* `ADDRESS` is the address of the camera, usually /dev/video0. Check [this page](./connectingusb.md) to find your camera address.
* `DEVICE_ID` is the device ID of the camera, usually `cam1`. Check [this page](./connectingusb.md) to find your camera device_id.

The command output should now contain the following lines, showing the inference results transmission to Pub/Sub:

```text
Passing camera images to the ML model container
{'predictionResult': … 'annotationSpecDisplayName': 'defect'}]}]}, 'predictionLatency': '4.417044194s'}
Transmitting data to Cloud Pub/Sub
Closing camera connection and exiting
```

You can observe the payloads by monitoring:

* [Cloud Pub/Sub subscription](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/cloudpubsub/): `camera-integration-telemetry`
* [Cloud Functions function](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/functions): `pubsub_bigquery_inference_results`
* [BigQuery table](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/bigquery): `viai_edge.inference_results`

</br>

___

<table width="100%">
<tr><td><a href="./useviai.md">^^^ Using Visual Inspection AI Edge</td><td><a href="./usingmqtt.md">Streaming inference results to local MQTT for local actions >>></td></tr>
</table>
